{
"Wu-wei ":"A paradoxical slogan in Laozi’s Daode Jing, which entices us to free ourselves from all forms of social control and artificially created desires. Its strategy centers on the notion of reversal by rejecting conventional Confucian virtues (sage, benevolence, social activism) and motivating the opposite (non-being, water, female). 6th century BCE. According to Daoism, after Discovery Model in which you realize what you always were through awakening, you attain Wu-wei. Wu-wei is nonaction or non-purposeful action. Wu-wei is to move with the Dao in a spontaneous, intuitive way. Important for understanding pre-Chan Buddhist conceptions of sagehood in China.",
"Laozi ":"Founder of Daoism and author of Daodejing. In contrast to Confucius who believes that the Way exists when ppl walk it, Lao Tzu says the Way preexists everything. Unlike Confucianism which is about learning hierarchy and language, Laozi believes language is inherently dualistic, violent, and creates divisions, which turn people away from the Dao. 6th century BCE.",
"Immortality Cults ":"People who leave society to remote wildernesses. They wanted to transmute the Qi of their bodies to achieve superpowers and longevity. The Immortality Cults’ practices centered around meditation and drug use. Important to Buddhism bc: 1) While in India the body is the problem, the Chinese see the body as something that can be worked with in religion and 2) Motif of reclusion from society similar to past Buddhisms.",
"Mencius ":"Lives 300 years after Confucius. Unlike Xunzi, Mencius believed human nature is good and is potentiality. Humans tend to be good, but need to be cultivated in the right environment (especially by the ruler.) Mencius believes humans have 4 essential characteristics: empathy, shame, humility, and sense of right and wrong. He uses the Baby at Well story to illustrate how all humans have a precognitive, innate inclination towards the good. Mencius’ beliefs are later important to Chan Buddhism, which believes that Buddha nature is also pre-cognitive and innate. 4th century BCE.",
"Xunzi ":"Lives 300 years after Confucius. Unlike Mencius, Xunzi believed that human nature is naturally evil and disorderly. He thought that humans needed everyday ritual to pattern human nature. Ritual provides standards for humans to have morality and society. Also believed in habituation--one learns rituals through the body upon being born. 3rd century BCE.",
"Mahakasyapa ":"Mahakasyapa was a brahman who became one of the principal disciples of Shakyamuni. 1st Chan Patriarch/founder of Chan Buddhism. According to the parable, Shakyamuni is twisting a udumbara flower that blooms only 3,000 years, Mahakasyapa leaves the room, and then Shakyamuni says only he gets his teachings. Mahakasyapa shows how: 1) enlightenment is extremely rare.  but also right in front of you if you just see it and 2) his leaving = not using language = counter-performance to demonstrate his understanding. Mahakasyapa is considered a dharma heir, which creates a lineage structure to transmit Buddhism in Chan. Important for the Sudden School of Buddhism, in which the path to enlightenment concentrated on direct experience rather than on rational creeds or revealed scriptures. Chan is therefore a meditative religion which seeks to enlighten people via a special transmission outside the scriptures. This transmission was passed on by the Buddha to Mahakasyapa, who then passed it on to a long list of Indian and Chinese patriarchs, eventually reaching Bodhidharma (5th - 6th century CE), who brought Chan Buddhism to China, and passed it on to Huike (487–593 CE).",
"Bodhidharma ":"Indian monk living in the 6th century. 1st Chinese Chan Patriarch who brings teachings from India to China. He meets with Emperor Liang Wudi and teaches him that Chan Buddhism is about wisdom, not about good works or karma. He also meditates in Hunan cave instead of leaving and spreading his message across China = his message is only for those who are spiritually elite. Bodhidharma teaches to his disciples that this body is Buddha and performance with everyday body manifests awakening.",
"Huike ":"1st disciple of Bodhidharma. He finds Bodhidharma in a cave and asks to be his disciple. Huike stands outside cave in snow and cuts off his arm = Chan followers have to seek out their master, be willing to sacrifice everything, perform their devoutness. Huike’s extreme practice = Chan Buddhism only for the most extreme followers. Huike later becomes the 2nd patriarch in China.",
"Huineng ":"Huineng creates the Sudden School in Chan Buddhism that wins out against the Gradual School. According to his autobiography in Platform Sutra, Huineng is an illiterate peasant who goes to a monastery in the North. At the monastery, he writes a new verse that contrasts with Shenxiu’s. Unlike Shenxiu, Huineng believes that we are trapped in dualism by believing there’s an Absolute and Provisional Truth. We don’t have to practice, but simply realize we are already a buddha to suddenly attain awakening. Huineng then becomes the 6th Patriarch of Chan Buddhism for his verse.",
"Platform Sutra ":"This sutra is Huineng's narration of how he became the 6th patriarch. He was an illiterate peasant in Guangdong southern china, and moved north to the monastery of the 5th patriarch, where he wrote a poem that reflected his views on Buddhism. A sutra is a text that is preached by the buddha, from the title we see the implication that Huineng himself is equivalent to a buddha. (master-sage transmission)",
"Treatise on the Two Entrances and Four Practices ":"6th century text attributed to Bodhidharma and accepted by Bodhidharma’s followers as embodying his teachings (McRae). Important to Chan tradition until early 8th century. This text’s key idea is that Buddha nature, the potential for Enlightenment, is within all sentient beings. Ordinary people simply don’t perceive their own buddha nature because of their false impressions. Reflects duel relationship btwn principle and practice. 4 principles refer to one’s gradual progression to detaching from life and realizing that everything that occurs is according to Buddhist principles.",
"Gong-an/Koan ":"Encounters between 2 monks in which 1 monk asks a Dharma question that requires performance. Famous example is ‘what is the sound of 1 hand clapping?’ (2 hands = duality and 1 hand = nonduality). Koan shows 1) importance of how you demonstrate your understanding of Buddhist conceptions spontaneously and in the everyday world and 2) getting out of discursive language",
"Daughter of the Dragon King ":"Dragon girl in the Lotus Sutra. Sariputra doubts she is a superior being because he thinks a woman’s body is not dharma-receptable. The Dragon girl gives Buddha a jewel, then transforms into a man, and becomes a Buddha. The Dragon girl symbolizes gender dynamics in Buddhism: 1) women should devote by giving offerings to the monastic order and 2) women have to physically become male to attain nirvana. Later, however, the Chinese tradition reinterprets this story to show that Sariputra is wrong. The Dragon girl reflects Skillful Means as she didn’t need to become male, she only did so to reach his level of understanding.",
"Kami ":"Anything larger than life according to Japanese cosmology. Kami are everywhere--can be an impressive boulder or a human being. Kami don’t have ethical sense and aren’t interested in humans. Kami are only concerned with purity. Buddhism has to reconcile with kami",
"Marebito ":"One of the three types of spirits in early Japanese, pre-Buddhist religions. Marebito are spirits that will incarnate as humans and test ppl on their hospitality. If one gives marebito hospitality, marebito will share blessings. If one doesn’t, marebito will bring curses to the entire village like epidemic.",
"Paekche ":"Korean territory whose king sends a Buddhist statue to the Yamato in Japan in 552 CE. Paekche asks for Japan’s military aid against other cities. This is Buddhism’s first transmission to Japan and has several consequences for Japanese Buddhism: 1) icons more important than scripture and 2) Buddhissm allied with the state",
"Soga Clan ":"Major pro-Buddhist faction during the early Yamato period advocating the worshipping of imported Buddhist icons from the King of Paekche. Although initially hit by plague, the Soga clan later beat the pro-Shinto Mononobe during the civil war in a decisive battle (587 AD) with support from Prince Shōtoku. The Soga clan facilitated not only the transition of the Buddha from a hitogami to a marebito but also the spread of iconic Buddhism across Japan.",
"Prince Shotoku ":"Father of Japanese Buddhism (Matsunaga). Related to the Soga clan, Shotoku vows to build Buddhist temples should the Mononobe lose. they lose, so he builds temples across Japan. He also builds embassies in China, so the Japanese could go learn about more about Chinese Buddhism and sutras. Shotoku shows that Buddhism in Japan is associated with the imperial family early on.",
"Buddhist Icons in Japan ":"Paekche’s king sends Buddhist statue to Japan, so icons are very important (more so than scripture) early on. Icons require scarce resources (metal), so are seen as high-tech. Icons = power. Icons are portable and localizable. One can always make more icons. Icons are good gifts--King of Yamato creates icons and sends them out to local rulers in Japan => he essentially creates Japan with him as an Emperor and loyal local rulers under him",
"Gyoki ":"Japanese monk who descended from a Korean immigrant family. He advocates for Three Stages Buddhism and encourages ppl to engage in social services to prevent Hell. Gyoki tells ppl to form ko (group of ppl to build icons) and also build bridges, roads, etc. to help humans. Gyoki also preaches self-ordination (ordain yourself by going to icon and praying for 7 days). For these beliefs, Japanese govt exiles him. But the govt calls him back out from exile to help build the Great Buddha because he has experience with engineering and building temples across Japan.",
"Ganjin ":"During time when imperial court has precepts crisis because court needs to re-ordain Japanese monks. Performs mass ordinations across China. He thought his teacher, Huisi, was reborn as Prince Shotoku and gave the Japanese the Dharma. Ganjin travels from China to Japan to bring the Sangha and resolve precepts crisis by re-ordinating Japanese monks",
"Ko ":"Group of people united by a vow to perform meritorious acts like building temples and making icons. Emerges during the karmic arms race in which ppl make temples and icons everywhere to get gods to work for them. Usually consisted of layppl. New Buddhist institutional structure that rivals the Sangha.",
"The Great Buddha Icon at Todaiji ":"Built by Emperor Shomu’s Sangha and Gyoki’s ko during the 8th century. Emperor Shomu desires to build world’s largest icon as a way to appease his people during epidemics and revolts. Its completion gave Buddhism the status of a national religion (Matsunaga). The kami, Hachiman, guarantees Japan will get the gold to cover the Great Buddha in gold leaf. This signifies a new relationship between Buddha & kami: kami are worshippers of Buddhism and Buddhism is at the top of hierarchy.",
"Emperor Shomu ":"8th century, Shomu faces the largest epidemic, heavy taxes, and revolts led by a Fujiwara family member. Shomu vows to build the Great Buddha to appease his people. Shomu pledges that Japan = Buddhist nation, Emperor = Dharma ruler, and Japan = ko nation. Shomu helps make Japanese Buddhism an explicitly political ideology and a national religion.",
"Hachiman ":"Emperor Shomu wants to build the largest icon in the world, but Japan doesn’t have enough gold. The emperor sends Gyoki to get help from kami of major shrines, including Hachiman of Kyushu. Hachiman guarantees where Gyoki can find gold, and gold is discovered. This marks the changing relationship between the kami and Buddha -- now buddha is on top and kami are the worshippers. Later, Hachiman controversially calls for Dokyo to be made Emperor. The Fujiwara clan then revolt against Dokyo.",
"Dokyo ":"8th century monk that helps heal the Empress Koken’s mother. As a result, gains significant power and influence and tries to obtain the throne. Spent government money on temples and increased ordinations (Matsunaga). After Empress Koken dies, the Fujiwara revolt against Dokyo and install a ruler who is dependent on the clan.",
"Empress Koken ":"Daughter of Emperor Shomu, she takes the throne in 8th century after his death. The monk Dokyo cures Koken’s mother of illness, Koken then begins an affair with him, and he manipulates her to gain power over the court. Upon her death, the Fujiwara take control over the court and women and Buddhist monks are banned from the throne",
}
